# `@carbon/icons-react`

**Note: everything in this file is a work-in-progress and will be changed.**

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

## Table of Contents

- [`@carbon/icons-react`](#carbonicons-react)
  - [Overview](#overview)
    - [Migration](#migration)
    - [Manual migration](#manual-migration)
      - [Component definition is missing display name](#component-definition-is-missing-display-name)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Overview

The `@carbon/icons-react` package has been updated to minimize the number of
exports from the package to help reduce build and compile times.

This update includes a change to the API of the icon components that come from
this package. Previously, we would export icons that included the size of the
asset. This update allows you to bring the icon directly and specify the size
using the `size` prop.

**Before**

```jsx
import { Add32, Add24, Add20, Add16 } from '@carbon/icons-react';

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <>
      <Add32 />
      <Add24 />
      <Add20 />
      <Add16 />
    </>
  );
}
```

**After**

```jsx
import { Add } from '@carbon/icons-react';

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <>
      <Add size={32} />
      <Add size={24} />
      <Add size={20} />
      <Add />
    </>
  );
}
```

_Note: by default, the `size` prop will point to the 16x16px version of the SVG
asset_

### Migration

Most use-cases of the icons from the `@carbon/icons-react` package will be
covered by an automated codemod. To run this codemod, follow the instructions
here: <TODO LINK>.

However, in certain situations, we will be unable to infer what the correct
update should be for a certain usage of the icon component. We have written the
codemod to work for most situations, but you will see console warnings for files
that will require you to manually review them to make sure the transforms were
applied correctly.

The most common manual update that teams will need to make is if a `prop` where
the icon is passed to places a `ref` on the icon. For example,

```jsx
function MyComponent({ renderIcon: Icon }) {
  const ref = useRef(null);
  return <Icon ref={ref} />;
}

// Before
<MyComponent renderIcon={Search16} />

// After the codemod
<MyComponent renderIcon={props => <Search size={16} {...props} />} />
```

In this situation, you will need to update your code to use `React.forwardRef`:

```jsx
<MyComponent
  renderIcon={React.forwardRef((props, ref) => (
    <Search ref={ref} size={16} {...props} />
  ))}
/>;

// Or, alternatively:
const Search16 = React.forwardRef((props, ref) => {
  return <Search ref={ref} size={16} {...props} />;
});

<MyComponent renderIcon={Search16} />;
```

### Manual migration

In addition to the automated codemods above, there are several patterns in your
codebase that you will need to update manually:

- If you use the name `ForwardRef(IconName16)` in a test you will need to
  manually change this. Prefer to use the component directly if using enzyme
- If you use snapshot tests, the structure will change and include a `size`
  prop. Make sure that the `size` prop value matches what your icon name used to
  be. For example, `<Add16 />` should become `<Add size={16} />`

#### Component definition is missing display name

If you use `eslint` you may run into the error message above. This comes from
the `react/display-rule` rule. It comes as a result of the transform changing
the following code:

```jsx
// Input
const iconTypes = {
  add: Add32,
};

// Output
const iconTypes = {
  add: (props) => <Add size={32} {...props} />,
};
```

The transform will create an inline arrow function expression and as a result it
does not have a `displayName` like if you created this function using a variable
or function declaration.

To address this issue, you can manually create the component:

```jsx
const Add32 = (props) => <Add size={32} {...props} />;
const iconTypes = {
  add: Add32,
};
```
