# Carbon v11

**Note: everything in this file is a work-in-progress and will be changed.**

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
## Table of Contents

- [Timeline](#timeline)
- [Updates](#updates)
  - [Single-entrypoint packages](#single-entrypoint-packages)
  - [`carbon-icons`](#carbon-icons)
  - [Vanilla JS components](#vanilla-js-components)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Timeline

**Note: all dates are an estimate and can be changed**

| Date                        | Release             | Status            |
| --------------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- |
| Alpha release               | April 15th, 2021    | Published         |
| Beta release                | July 22nd, 2021     | Under development |
| Release Candidate 0 release | ~1 month after beta | Not published     |
| Stable release              | ~1 month after rc.0 | Not published     |

We are breaking up our v11 release into several iterations to get feedback from
teams before our stable release. If you're interested in helping us out with
this process, please go through our
[Release Partner Program](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/wiki/Release-Partner-Program)
to learn more about how to participate.

In general, all releases before the release candidate stage will be incomplete
or unstable. As we get closer to our stable release, we will cut release
candidates that will reflect our best approximation of v11 at the time of
publishing.

During each release stage, we're looking to get feedback from teams in our
[Release Partner Program](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/wiki/Release-Partner-Program).

## Updates

### Single-entrypoint packages

Starting in v11, we will prefix many of the packages we ship with the `@carbon`
scope. We will also try and consolidate packages where possible to get as close
to a one-package, one-install experience.

- `carbon-components`
- `carbon-components-react`
- `carbon-icons`

In v11, you will only need to install one package: `@carbon/react`. This package
will contain components, styles, and icons all bundled up in one package.

This does not mean that all packages are now developed in the `@carbon/react`
package. Instead, we re-export packages like `@carbon/icons-react` or the new
`@carbon/styles` for you to use.

For teams using the `carbon-components` package for styles, you can update to
`@carbon/styles` which is our standalone styles package for Sass.

Both `carbon-components` and `carbon-components-react` will continue to work in
v11, however they are only re-exporting from `@carbon/styles` and
`@carbon/react` respectively.

### `carbon-icons`

The `carbon-icons` package has been archived and is no longer supported. To use
icons from the Carbon Design System, you should install the appropriate library
to use with your framework:

- `@carbon/icons`: Vanilla JavaScript
- `@carbon/icons-react`: React
- `@carbon/icons-vue`: Vue
- `@carbon/icons-angular`: Angular
- `carbon-icons-svelte`: Svelte

### Vanilla JS components

For a long time now, the `carbon-components` package has shipped Vanilla
JavaScript version of components for teams to use. Starting in v11, these
components will be split out from the main package and into a
community-supported package. The Carbon team will no longer directly support
these components.

You can continue to use the v10.x version of `carbon-components`, or use the
`TODO` package to access the Vanilla JS components.

If you're interested in helping to maintain this package, we're currently
looking for maintainers! Please reach out to us over at: TODO.
